{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f3\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Cordia New;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\b\f0\fs20 LOTRO ABC format - Quick Reference\par
\pard\b0\par
\pard\qc As of Chapter 11\par
\pard\ul\fs24 Useful links:\ulnone\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-270\li450\fs20 LOTRO official music forum: http://forums.lotro.com/forumdisplay.php?f=108\line  -- This is your first stop for information about in-game music\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Official ABC Standard: http://abc.sourceforge.net/standard/abc2-draft.html\line  -- yes, it says "draft," but it hasn't changed since 2003\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}JC's ABC Tune Search: http://trillian.mit.edu/~jc/cgi/abc/tunefind\line  -- Searches for ABC files for a song you request. Best at finding folk music\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}ABC links and collections: http://www.walshaw.plus.com/abc/tunes.html\line  -- A good place to start for links to collections\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Lorebook page on music mechanics: http://lorebook.lotro.com/wiki/Category:Music_Mechanics\par
\pard\par
ABC commands in LOTRO:\par
\pard\fi270 /playlist \tab\tab Lists the contents of the ABC directory to your chat display. You may copy and paste from there.\par
/play\tab "name"\tab\tab Starts playing an ABC file. You may omit the extension if it is ABC. Use quotes if the name contains spaces.\par
/play "name" sync\tab Prepares to play a file when someone in your fellowship issues a start-sync command\par
/playstart\tab\tab Tells everyone in your fellowship to play the file they have specified.\par
\par
\pard LOTRO reads ABC files from \b <My Documents>\\The Lord of the Rings Online\\Music\b0\par
\pard\qc\ul\b\fs24 __________________\par
\fs28 ABC File Headers\par
\pard\ulnone\fs20 Headers used by LOTRO\par
\pard\fi270\f1 X\b0 : \tab Number identifying the tune within the file. LOTRO only supports one tune per file, so put any number here\par
\b T\b0 :\tab Name of the tune. Shown in an emote to you in LOTRO and shown in the music manager app\par
\b M\b0 :\tab Meter. This can be expressed numerically (4/4, 3/4, 6/8) or as C or C| for common and cut time.\par
\b L\b0 :\tab Length of a note. This is the default length of any note specified in the ABC file and is used as the basis for all doubling, halving, etc. It should be specified in numeric format: 1/8, 1/4, 1, etc.\par
\b Q\b0 :\tab Tempo, in normal format: 1/4=100. For some reason, LOTRO seems to \ul feel\ulnone  like it's playing a little slow, so you may want to increase this number. Tempo and meter also interact in unusual ways. A song in C time will play faster in C| time even with the same specifier for a note length.\par
\b K\b0 :\tab Key, specified like a tablature chord: C, Eb, Amin, Bbmin, etc. The standard supports modal key signatures (very useful for traditional folk music), but I don't know if LOTRO supports that. This chart is copied from http://abc.sourceforge.net/standard/abc2-draft.html#K:%20-%20key\par
\pard\fi630\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\f2 Key Sig     Major   Minor    Mix     Dor     Phr     Lyd     Loc\par
            Ion     Aeo    \par
\par
7 sharps:   C#      A#m      G#Mix   D#Dor   E#Phr   F#Lyd   B#Loc\par
6 sharps:   F#      D#m      C#Mix   G#Dor   A#Phr   BLyd    E#Loc\par
5 sharps:   B       G#m      F#Mix   C#Dor   D#Phr   ELyd    A#Loc\par
4 sharps:   E       C#m      BMix    F#Dor   G#Phr   ALyd    D#Loc\par
3 sharps:   A       F#m      EMix    BDor    C#Phr   DLyd    G#Loc\par
2 sharps:   D       Bm       AMix    EDor    F#Phr   GLyd    C#Loc\par
1 sharp :   G       Em       DMix    ADor    BPhr    CLyd    F#Loc\par
0 sharps:   C       Am       GMix    DDor    EPhr    FLyd    BLoc\par
1 flat  :   F       Dm       CMix    GDor    APhr    BbLyd   ELoc\par
2 flats :   Bb      Gm       FMix    CDor    DPhr    EbLyd   ALoc\par
3 flats :   Eb      Cm       BbMix   FDor    GPhr    AbLyd   DLoc\par
4 flats :   Ab      Fm       EbMix   BbDor   CPhr    DbLyd   GLoc\par
5 flats :   Db      Bbm      AbMix   EbDor   FPhr    GbLyd   CLoc\par
6 flats :   Gb      Ebm      DbMix   AbDor   BbPhr   CbLyd   FLoc\par
7 flats :   Cb      Abm      GbMix   DbDor   EbPhr   FbLyd   BbLoc\par
\pard\b\f1\par
Headers Ignored by LOTRO:\par
\b0 You may find these headers useful\par
\pard\fi270\b N\b0 :\tab\i Notes. You may have as many lines of notes as you need.\par
\b\i0 A\b0 :\tab\i Author of lyrics\b\i0\par
O\b0 :\tab\i Geographical region of origin. For custom music composed for LOTRO this could include race and zone\par
\b\i0 Z\b0 :\tab\i Transcriber into ABC form. \par
\b\i0 G\b0 :\tab\i Group. This is intended for application-specific indexing information.\par
\b\i0 H\b0 :\tab\i History. Kind of like N but intended for the "story" behind and about the song\par
\pard\i0 You will probably not find this header useful:\par
\pard\fi270 %%\tab Introduces a large number of advanced ABC constructs, many around printing the file, none of which LOTRO notices.\b\i\par
\pard\b0\i0\f0\par
\b Headers Harmful to LOTRO:\par
\pard\fi270 V\b0 :\tab\i Defines a voice for multi-part files. \i0\par
\b P\b0 :\tab\i Defines multi-part (harmony) ABC files. These will confuse LOTRO to no end.\i0\par
\pard\par
\pard\qc\b\fs28 _______________\par
\ul TUNE CONTENTS\par
\pard\ulnone\fs24 Pitch:\par
\b0\fs20 Notes are specified by the standard note letter: ABCDEFG. LOTRO supports a 3 octave range; the ABC standard supports much more.\par
Notes are most easily expressed with capitalization: ABCDEFGabcdefg is an ascending, 2 octave A-Minor scale.\par
\par
If you have trouble remembering the order, you can use the mnemonic that \i capital letters are heavier (larger) and sink below (lower pitch) than lower-case (smaller) letters\i0 .\par
\pard\qc\b ABCDEFGabcdefg\b0\tab Ascending scale\par
\pard\par
You may modify the octave of a note with modifiers:\par
\pard\fi270\b\f3\fs28 A,\f0\fs20\tab One octave below A\par
\f3\fs28 A'\f0\fs20\tab One octave above A\b0\tab\i Yes, \i0 A'=a\i  and \i0 A=,a \i Yes, this can lead to confusion\b\i0\par
\f3\fs28\par
a,, = A,\f0\fs20\par
\pard\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 The general range of LOTRO instruments is: \f1 C, D, E, F, G, A, B, C D E F G A B c d e f g a b c'\par
Some instruments' tessitura does not include the extreme end of the range (for example, the flute will play c' instead of C,)\f4\fs24\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\par
\fs24 Rests\par
\b0\fs20 Rests are specified by the letter z\par
\pard\fi270\b\f3\fs28 z\f0\fs20\tab\b0 A rest \par
\b\f3\fs28 z2\f0\fs20\tab\b0 Double length rest, just like a note\par
\b\fs24\par
\pard Accidentals:\par
\b0\fs20 LOTRO will apply and modifiers to notes based on the key signature. You may apply accidentals with modifiers:\par
\pard\fi270\b\f3\fs28 ^C\f0\fs20\tab C-sharp (C#)\par
\f3\fs28 =B\f0\fs20\tab B-natural \b0\i (Both a note and a good idea)\b\i0\par
\f3\fs28 _A\f0\fs20\tab A-flat (Ab)\par
\pard\b0\i Yes, you may use ^^ and __ for double sharps and double flats as needed\b\i0\par
\par
\fs24 Note Length\fs20\par
\b0 Notes normally have the length defined by the L: field in the header. You may alter this with a multiplier after a note:\par
\par
\pard\fi270\f3\fs28 L:1/4\f0\fs20\par
\f3\fs28 A\f0\fs20\tab\tab Quarter note\par
\f3\fs28 A2\f0\fs20\tab\tab Half note \par
\f3\fs28 A3\f0\fs20\tab\tab Dotted half note \par
\f3\fs28 A4\f0\fs20\tab\tab Whole note\par
\par
\f3\fs28 A1/2\f0\fs20\tab Eighth note\par
\f3\fs28 A/\f0\fs20\tab\tab Shorthand for A1/2, an eighth note\par
\f3\fs28 A3/2\tab\f0\fs20 1.5 note length: a dotted quarter note\par
\f3\fs28 A/4\f0\fs20\tab One quarter of a quarter note: a sixteenth note\par
\pard\par
"<" and ">" are special syntax for common broken rhythm:\par
\pard\fi270\f3\fs28 L:1/4\f0\fs20\par
\f3\fs28 ^F>G\f0\fs20\tab Dotted F# to G (3/8 F#, 1/8 G)\par
\f3\fs28 ^F<G\f0\fs20\tab F# to dotted G (1/8 F#, 3/8 G)\par
\pard\b\par
\ul Note: not all LOTRO instruments are capable of sustaining a note.\ulnone  \b0 A Harp, for instance, will still play a "pluck' duration regardless of the ABC.\ul\b\par
\ulnone\par
\fs24 Melody:\par
\b0\fs20 Notes are simply strung together to make a song, with the | symbol marking off measures: \par
\pard\fi270\f3\fs28 GF'EF^ | G2 G2 | G4 | F'2 F'2 | GAA2 | GF'EF^ | G G G G | F'F' GF' | E4 ||\f0\fs20\par
\pard Split songs across lines as needed for readability.\par
Actually, LOTRO seems to ignore measure bars, but please use them if you share your ABC file.\par
\par
\b\fs24 Ties and Slurs:\par
\b0\f1\fs20 Not fully supported by LOTRO, but the syntax is:\par
\pard\fi270\f3\fs28 c-|c\f1\fs20\tab\tab Tie the two c notes together across the bar - supported in Book 11 if the notes are the same\par
\f3\fs28 (ceg)\f1\fs20\tab\tab Slur these notes - not supported in book 11\ul\b\f0\par
\pard\ulnone\b0\par
\b\fs24 Harmony:\b0\fs20\par
Book 11 introduced chords to LOTRO ABC (\i yay!\i0 )\par
A chord is a bunch of notes in square brackets: []\par
\pard\fi270\par
\f3\fs28 [ceg]\fs20\tab\f0\tab\i c chord\par
\pard\i0\par
These are played like any other note: they have duration, pitch, octave, and accidentals. For example:\par
\pard\fi270\par
\f3\fs28 [d2f'2a2]\f0\fs20\tab\i DMaj chord at double the default length\par
\pard\i0\par
Special notes:\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-270\li540 If notes in a chord have different lengths, the next note after the chord begins when the \i shortest \i0 note in the chord ends.\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Spaces inside a chord bracket will confuse LOTRO\par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}A LOTRO instrument cannot play the \i same\i0  note twice simultaneously. If a chord is sustaining a note and that note appears in the subsequent melody, an error will occur. Chords with notes of different lengths are highly discouraged.\par
\pard\b\f1 Example:\b0\f5\fs28\par
\pard\fi270\f3\fs24 X:1\par
N: Notes:\par
N:  - use [notes] for a chord\par
N:  - Spaces are not allowed inside the brackets. Use [ceg] not [c e g]\par
N:  - Chord notes are played together as polyphony. \par
N:    They take up duration as though they were\par
N:  - listed separately. [cegc'4] will play [ceg] for one unit \par
N:    and play [c'] for 4\par
N:    Note how the middle c sustains after the rest of the chord in the final bar\par
T:Testing chords\par
K:CM\par
M:C\par
L:1/4\par
Q:1/4=150\par
[ceg] egc | [f,ac] ac'f | [g,bd] b,d>f, | [gbdf,] [\b c3\b0 e2g2c'2c,2] ||\f1\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\par
Example that generates the "note is already sounding" error\par
\pard\fi270\b0\f3\fs28 [\b c4\b0 e2g2]C/E/G/\b c\b0\par
\pard\f1\par
ABC Features not supported in LOTRO:\par
\fs20 If you are editing an ABC file from the net to make it work in LOTRO, here are some of the elements you may need to remove:\par
\pard\fi270\f3\fs28\{ \}\f1\fs20\tab Grace notes\par
\f3\fs28 (2\f1\fs20 , \f3\fs28 (3\f1\fs20 , ...\tab Triplets, etc.\par
\f3\fs28 [ ]2\f0\fs20\tab Length of a chord. Put the number after each note in the chord\par
\f3\fs28 [DD]\tab\f0\fs20 Unison or drone for some instruments. Remove one of the notes.\par
\f3\fs28 "Am"\f0\fs20\tab Tablature symbol in the melody. Ignored by LOTRO. Replace with a chord.\par
\f3\fs28 W:\f0\fs20\tab\tab Indicates lyrics. LOTRO will ignore these for now. Hopefully someday it will emote them.\par
\f3\fs28 [V:1]\tab\f0\fs20 Voice indicator for a line. Separate each voice into a file for synchronized play.\par
\f3\fs28 |: :|\tab\f0\fs20 Repeats. You have to duplicate the contents manually.\par
\par
}
 